DOCSP-46072 Associations part 2 (#82)
mongodb/docs-mongoid: source/data-modeling/associations.txt

   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-embedded-destroy-all
   :end-before: # end-embedded-destroy-all

> Association Behaviors

Reviewer: q: is 'behaviors' a technical term here, or just a general way to describe how associations work? if it's the latter, something like 'Customize Association Behavior' might be clearer.

---------------------

> When working with associations in {+odm+}, there are various behaviors that
> allow you to customize how associations are handled in your application. The following

Reviewer: i: [there are](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#t:~:text=maximum%20cache%20size.-,there%20are,-there%20is%20%20Avoid)

```suggestion
You can use {+odm+} to customize how associations behave in your application.
The following
```

> sections describe common association behaviors.

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
sections describe ways to customize association behaviors.
```

Extensions
~~~~~~~~~~

Extensions allow you to add specific functionality to an association. You can
define an extension on an association by specifying a block in the association
definition, as shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-extensions
   :end-before: # end-extensions

>    :emphasize-lines: 4-6

Reviewer: q: are there any requirements or recommendations for extensions (what they're called, where they're defined, what they do, etc)?

Author: From the way I understand it, extensions are basically just methods that can be whatever you define

Custom Association Names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the ``class_name`` macro to specify a custom class name for an

> association. This is useful when you want to use a different name for an
> association than the name of the class. The following example uses the

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
association. This is useful when you want to name the association something other
than the name of the class. The following example uses the
```

``class_name`` macro to specify that an embedded association called ``records``

> represents the ``Album`` class:

Reviewer: q: if you hadn't specified this, what would the association be called? i'm not very familiar with mongoid or associations

Author: If it's not specified it just uses the name of the class - so in this example if you just said `embeds_many :records` it would use the Record class (mongoid automatically translates plural -> singular)

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-custom-name
   :end-before: # end-custom-name

Custom Keys
~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, {+odm+} uses the ``_id`` field of the parent class when looking up

> associations. You can specify a different field to use by specifying the

Reviewer: i think this should be plural

```suggestion
associations. You can specify different fields to use by specifying the
```

> associations. You can specify a different field to use by specifying the

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
associations. You can specify a different field to use by using the
```

``primary_key`` and ``foreign_key`` macros. The following example specifies a new
primary and foreign key for the ``albums`` association on a ``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-custom-keys
   :end-before: # end-custom-keys

If you are specifying a ``has_and_belongs_to_many`` association, you can also

> set the ``inverse_primary_key`` and ``inverse_foreign_key`` macros. The

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
use the ``inverse_primary_key`` and ``inverse_foreign_key`` macros. The
```

``inverse_primary_key`` macro specifies the field on the local model that the
remote model uses to look up the documents.
The ``inverse_foreign_key`` macro specifies the field on the remote model
that stores the values found in ``inverse_primary_key``.

The following example specifies a new primary and foreign key for the
``Band`` and ``Members`` classes in a ``has_and_belongs_to_many`` association:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-custom-inverse-keys
   :end-before: # end-custom-inverse-keys
   :emphasize-lines: 9, 20

Custom Scopes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can set a specific scope on an association by using the ``scope`` parameter.

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
You can specify the scope of an association by using the ``scope`` parameter.
```

> The ``scope`` parameter determines which documents {+odm+} considers to be part

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
The ``scope`` parameter determines the documents that {+odm+} considers part
```

of an association. A scoped association returns only documents that match the
scope conditions when queried. You can set the ``scope`` to either a ``Proc`` with an arity

> of zero or a ``Symbol`` that references a named scope on the associated model.

Reviewer: q: i'm assuming this will make sense to someone who knows mongoid?

Author: Yeah, I had to look it up but it's apparently common db/ruby terms

The following example sets custom scopes on associations in a ``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-custom-scope
   :end-before: # end-custom-scope

.. note::

   You can add documents that do not match the scope conditions to an

>    association. {+odm+} saves the documents to the database and they will appear
>    in associated memory, however, the documents are not present when the
>    association is queried in the future.

Reviewer: i: [comma splice](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#commas:~:text=Don%27t%20use%20only%20a%20comma%20to%20separate%20independent%20clauses.%20Doing%20so%20creates%20a%20comma%20splice.)

```suggestion
   association. {+odm+} saves these documents to the database and they will appear
   in associated memory, but the documents are not present when the
   association is queried in the future.
```

the last clause mixes tenses ('are not present' + 'in the future'), but i don't know enough to suggest a change. is there a way to do it in second-person (e.g., ' you won't see the documents if you query...')?

Author: Good call, reworded this with second-person

Validations
~~~~~~~~~~~

> By default, {+odm+} validates that the children of any associations are present
> when it loads the association into memory by using the ``validates_associated``
> macro. This applies to the following association types:

Reviewer: i: this sounds like it uses 'validates_associated' to load the association into memory

```suggestion
When {+odm+} loads an association into memory, by default, it uses the
``validates_associated``
macro to validate that any children are also present.
{+odm+} validates children for the following association types:
```

   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-validation-false
   :end-before: # end-validation-false

Polymorphism
~~~~~~~~~~~~

{+odm+} supports polymorphism on the child classes of one-to-one and one-to-many associations.
Polymorphic associations allows a single association to contain objects of different class
types. You can define a polymorphic association by setting the ``polymorphic``
option to ``true`` in a child association and adding the ``as`` option to the
parent association. The following example creates a polymorphic association in a
``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-polymorphic
   :end-before: # end-polymorphic

In the preceding example, the ``:featured`` association in the ``Band`` class can contain either a
``Label`` or ``Album`` document.

.. important::

   {+odm+} supports polymorphism only from child to parent. You cannot specify
   a parent ``has_one`` or ``has_many`` association as polymorphic.

``has_and_belongs_to_many`` associations do not support polymorphism.

Custom Polymorphic Types
````````````````````````

> Starting in version 9.0.2, {+odm+} adds support for custom polymorphic types through

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
Starting in version 9.0.2, {+odm+} supports custom polymorphic types through
```

is the support for polymorphic types new and the global registry is what makes it work? or have polymorphic types always been supported and the global registry piece is new?

a global registry. You can specify alternative keys to represent different
classes, decoupling your code from the data. The following example specifies
the string ``"artist"`` as an alternate key for the ``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-custom-polymorphic
   :end-before: # end-custom-polymorphic

In the preceding example, the ``identify_as`` directive instructs {+odm+}
to store the ``Band`` class in the database as the string ``"artist"``. 

You can also specify multiple aliases, as shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-multiple-alias
   :end-before: # end-multiple-alias

In the preceding example, ``artist`` is the default name and the others are used
only for looking up records. This allows you to refactor your
code without breaking the associations in your data. 

Polymorphic type aliases are global. The keys you specify must be unique across your

> entire code base. However, it is possible to register alternative resolvers that

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
entire code base. However, you can register alternative resolvers that
```

can be used for different subsets of your models. In this case, the keys must

> only be unique for each resolver. The following example shows how to register

Reviewer: s: i think it should be

```suggestion 
be unique only for each resolver. The following example shows how to register
```

alternate resolvers:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-polymorphic-resolvers
   :end-before: # end-polymorphic-resolvers

Both ``Music::Band`` and ``Tools::Band`` are aliased as 

> ``"bnd"``, but use their own resolver to avoid conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``"bnd"``, but each model uses its own resolver to avoid conflicts.
```

Dependent Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can provide ``dependent`` options to referenced associations to specify how
{+odm+} handles associated documents when a document is deleted. You can specify
the following options:

- ``delete_all``: Deletes all child documents without running any model
  callbacks.
- ``destroy``: Deletes the child documents and runs all model callbacks.
- ``nullify``: Sets the foreign key of the child documents to ``nil``. The child
  document might become orphaned if it is referenced by only the parent.
- ``restrict_with_exception``: Raises an exception if the child document is not
  empty.
- ``restrict_with_error``: Cancels the operation and returns ``false`` if the
  child document is not empty.

If you don't specify any ``dependent`` options, {+odm+} leaves the child

> document unchanged when the parent document is deleted. The child document
> continues to reference the deleted parent document. If the child document is
> referenced through only the parent, the child document becomes orphaned.

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
document unchanged when the parent document is deleted. The child document
continues to reference the deleted parent document, and if it is
referenced through only the parent, the child document becomes orphaned.
```

The following example specifies ``dependent`` options on the ``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-dependent
   :end-before: # end-dependent

Autosave Referenced Associations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, {+odm+} does not automatically save associated documents from
non-embedded associations when saving the parent document. Because of this, it's
possible to create dangling references to documents that don't exist through

> associations. You can use the ``autosave`` option on a referenced association to

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
associations.

You can use the ``autosave`` option on a referenced association to
```

> non-embedded associations when saving the parent document. Because of this, it's
> possible to create dangling references to documents that don't exist through
> associations. You can use the ``autosave`` option on a referenced association to

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
non-embedded associations when saving the parent document. This can
result in dangling references to documents that don't exist.
 You can use the ``autosave`` option on a referenced association to
```

automatically save associated documents when saving the parent document. The
following example creates a ``Band`` class with an associated ``Album`` class
and specifies the ``autosave`` option:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-autosave
   :end-before: # end-autosave
   :emphasize-lines: 10

.. note::

   {+odm+} automatically adds autosave functionality to an association that uses
   the ``accepts_nested_attributes_for`` option.

You do not need to specify the ``autosave`` option for embedded associations
because {+odm+} saves embedded documents in the parent document.

Autobuild
~~~~~~~~~

You can add the ``autobuild`` option to one-to-one associations, such as
``has_one`` and ``embeds_one``, to automatically instantiate a new document when
accessing a ``nil`` association. The following example adds the ``autobuild``
option to an association on the ``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-autobuild
   :end-before: # end-autobuild

Touch
~~~~~

> You can add the ``touch`` option to any ``belongs_to`` association to ensure
> that {+odm+} touches the parent document any time the child document is updated.
> When {+odm+} touches the parent document, it updates the document's
> ``updated_at`` field. The following example adds the ``touch`` option to an

Reviewer: s: i assume most people understand 'touch' in this context, but some might not

```suggestion
When {+odm+} *touches* a document, it updates the document's
``updated_at`` field to the current date and time.
You can add the ``touch`` option to any ``belongs_to`` association to ensure
that {+odm+} touches the parent document whenever the child document is updated.
 The following example adds the ``touch`` option to an
```

association on the ``Band`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-touch
   :end-before: # end-touch

> You can also specify a string or a symbol in the ``touch`` option to specify
> another field to touch on the parent association. When doing so, {+odm+} updates
> the specified field and the ``updated_at`` field in the parent association. The
> following example instructs {+odm+} to touch the ``bands_updated_at`` field:

Reviewer: s: take or leave as much of this as you want

```suggestion
Within the ``touch`` option, you can also specify another field on the parent
association, as a string or a symbol. When {+odm+} touches the parent
association, it sets both the ``updated_at`` field and the specified field
to the current date and time.

The
following example instructs {+odm+} to touch the ``bands_updated_at`` field:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-touch-specific
   :end-before: # end-touch-specific

.. note::

   In embedded associations, when an embedded document is touched, {+odm+}
   touches its parents recursively. Because of this, adding a ``touch``

>    attribute to an ``embedded_in`` association is unnecessary. {+odm+} does not

Reviewer: s: new paragraph; seems like a separate idea?

```suggestion
   attribute to an ``embedded_in`` association is unnecessary.
   
   {+odm+} does not
```

   support specifying additional fields to touch in ``embedded_in``
   associations.

Counter Cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use the ``counter_cache`` option to store the number of objects

> that belong to an associated field. When specifying this option, {+odm+} stores

Reviewer: i: [dangling modifier](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/writing/clarify-gerunds-participles/#clarify-gerunds-and-participles) for 'specifying'

```suggestion
that belong to an associated field. When you specify this option, {+odm+} stores
```

an extra attribute on the associated models to store the count. Because of this,
you must specify the ``Mongoid::Attributes::Dynamic`` module in the associated

> classes. The following example adds the ``counter_cache`` option to a ``Band``

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
classes.

The following example adds the ``counter_cache`` option to a ``Band``
```

class and specifies the ``Mongoid::Attributes::Dynamic`` in a ``Label`` class:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-counter-cache
   :end-before: # end-counter-cache
   :emphasize-lines: 4, 9

Association Metadata
--------------------

When you define an association, {+odm+} stores metadata about that association.
You can access the metadata by calling the ``reflect_on_association`` method on
a model class or document, or by directly accessing the metadata on a specific
document. The following example shows how to access metadata by using the
``reflect_on_association`` method and by direct access:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-access-metadata
   :end-before: # end-access-metadata

.. note::

   Replace ``<association_name>`` in the preceding example with the name of your
   association.

Attributes
~~~~~~~~~~

All associations contain attributes that store information about the associated
document. Associations contain the following attributes:

> - ``_target``: Contains the proxied document or documents
> - ``_base``: Contains the document on which the association is defined
> - ``_association``: Contains information about the association

Reviewer: s:

```suggestion
- ``_target``: The proxied document or documents
- ``_base``: The document on which the association is defined
- ``_association``: Information about the association
```

The following example accesses each of the preceding attributes:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/data-modeling/association-behaviors.rb
   :language: ruby
   :start-after: # start-attributes
   :end-before: # end-attributes

The following table shows the information stored in the ``_association``
attribute:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 60

   * - Method
     - Description
   * - ``Association#as``

>      - Returns the name of the parent to a polymorphic child.

Reviewer: s: i would leave 'returns' off of all of these rows

Author: I removed it from most rows but left it on the "Returns whether xyz" ones since they feel like they make less sense without "return"

Reviewer: I think you could start with 'Whether...' if you wanted to, but either way is probably fine

   * - ``Association#as?``
     - Returns whether an ``as`` option exists.
   * - ``Association#autobuilding?``
     - Returns whether the association is autobuilding.
   * - ``Association#autosaving?``
     - Returns whether the association is autosaving.
   * - ``Association#cascading_callbacks?``
     - Returns whether the association has callbacks cascaded down from the parent.
   * - ``Association#class_name``
     - Returns the class name of the proxied document.
   * - ``Association#cyclic?``
     - Returns whether the association is a cyclic association.
   * - ``Association#dependent``
     - Returns the association's dependent option.
   * - ``Association#destructive?``

>      - Returns ``true`` if the association has a dependent delete or destroy method.

Reviewer: q: are 'delete' and 'destroy' names of specific methods, or just kinds of methods? if the former, should they be monospace?

Author: They're specific types of methods

   * - ``Association#indexed?``
     - Returns whether the foreign key is auto indexed.
   * - ``Association#inverses``
     - Returns the names of all inverse associations.
   * - ``Association#inverse``
     - Returns the name of a single inverse association.
   * - ``Association#inverse_class_name``
     - Returns the class name of the association on the inverse side.
   * - ``Association#inverse_foreign_key``
     - Returns the name of the foreign-key field on the inverse side.
   * - ``Association#inverse_klass``
     - Returns the class of the association on the inverse side.
   * - ``Association#inverse_association``
     - Returns the metadata of the association on the inverse side.
   * - ``Association#inverse_of``
     - Returns the explicitly defined name of the inverse association.
   * - ``Association#inverse_setter``
     - Returns the name of the method used to set the inverse.
   * - ``Association#inverse_type``
     - Returns the name of the polymorphic-type field of the inverse.
   * - ``Association#inverse_type_setter``
     - Returns the name of the polymorphic-type field's setter of the inverse.
   * - ``Association#key``

>      - Returns the name of the field in the attribute's hash used to get the association.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Returns the name of the field in the attribute's hash that is used to get the association.
```

   * - ``Association#klass``
     - Returns the class of the proxied documents in the association.
   * - ``Association#name``
     - Returns the association name.
   * - ``Association#options``

>      - Returns self, for API compatibility with ActiveRecord.

Reviewer: s: ?

```suggestion
     - Returns ``self``, for API compatibility with ActiveRecord.
```

   You can add documents that do not match the scope conditions to an
   association. {+odm+} saves the documents to the database and they will appear

>    in associated memory, however, you won't see the documents when querying the

Reviewer: I: [comma splice](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/style/punctuation/#commas)

```suggestion
   in associated memory. However, you won't see the documents when querying the
```
